cockroach-django/README.md, before:

# Secure CockroachDB Cluster with Django, inspired by [Docker tutorial](https://docs.docker.com/compose/django/)
Simple 3 node *secure* CockroachDB cluster with HAProxy acting as load balancer

Prerequisites:

## Services
* `roach-0` - CockroachDB node
* `roach-1` - CockroachDB node
* `roach-2` - CockroachDB node
* `lb` - HAProxy acting as load balancer
* `roach-cert` - Holds certificates as volume mounts
* `web` - Django node

## Getting started
>If you are using Google Chrome as your browser, you may want to navigate here `chrome://flags/#allow-insecure-localhost` and set this flag to `Enabled`.

1) `docker-compose run web django-admin startproject composeexample .`

```bash
14:32 $ docker-compose run web django-admin startproject composeexample .
Starting roach-cert ... done
Starting roach-0    ... done
```

2) populate composeexample/settings.py with database-specific properties

```python
DATABASES = {
    'default': {
        'ENGINE': 'django_cockroachdb',
        'NAME': 'myproject',
        'USER': 'myprojectuser',
        'HOST': 'roach-0',
        'PORT': '26257',
        'OPTIONS': {
            'sslmode': 'require',
            'sslrootcert': '/certs/ca.crt',
            'sslcert': '/certs/client.myprojectuser.crt',
            'sslkey': '/certs/client.myprojectuser.key',
        },
    },
}
```

3) because operation order is important, execute `./up.sh` instead of `docker-compose up`
   - monitor the status of services via `docker-compose logs`
   - in case you need to adjust something in composexample/settings.py, you can
          use `docker-compose logs web`, `docker-compose kill web`, `docker-compose up -d web`
          to debug and proceed.
4) visit the [CockroachDB UI](https://localhost:8080) and login with username `test` and password `password`
5) visit the [HAProxy UI](http://localhost:8081)
6) visit the [Django](http://localhost:8000) webpage

### Open Interactive Shells
```bash
docker exec -ti roach-0 /bin/bash
docker exec -ti roach-1 /bin/bash
docker exec -ti roach-2 /bin/bash
docker exec -ti lb /bin/sh
docker exec -ti roach-cert /bin/sh
docker exec -ti web /bin/bash
```

## If web container fails to start due to the following issue:

```bash
    return func(*args, **kwargs)
  File "/usr/local/lib/python3.7/site-packages/django/db/backends/base/base.py", line 219, in ensure_connection
    self.connect()
  File "/usr/local/lib/python3.7/site-packages/django/db/utils.py", line 90, in __exit__
    raise dj_exc_value.with_traceback(traceback) from exc_value
  File "/usr/local/lib/python3.7/site-packages/django/db/backends/base/base.py", line 219, in ensure_connection
    self.connect()
  File "/usr/local/lib/python3.7/site-packages/django/utils/asyncio.py", line 26, in inner
    return func(*args, **kwargs)
  File "/usr/local/lib/python3.7/site-packages/django/db/backends/base/base.py", line 200, in connect
    self.connection = self.get_new_connection(conn_params)
  File "/usr/local/lib/python3.7/site-packages/django/utils/asyncio.py", line 26, in inner
    return func(*args, **kwargs)
  File "/usr/local/lib/python3.7/site-packages/django/db/backends/postgresql/base.py", line 187, in get_new_connection
    connection = Database.connect(**conn_params)
  File "/usr/local/lib/python3.7/site-packages/psycopg2/__init__.py", line 127, in connect
    conn = _connect(dsn, connection_factory=connection_factory, **kwasync)
django.db.utils.OperationalError: ERROR:  password authentication failed for user myprojectuser
```

Issue the following command to restart the container

```bash
docker-compose restart web
```

## Apply migration

```bash
docker-compose exec web python manage.py migrate
```

```bash
Operations to perform:
  Apply all migrations: admin, auth, contenttypes, sessions
Running migrations:
  Applying contenttypes.0001_initial... OK
  Applying auth.0001_initial... OK
  Applying admin.0001_initial... OK
  Applying admin.0002_logentry_remove_auto_add... OK
  Applying admin.0003_logentry_add_action_flag_choices... OK
  Applying contenttypes.0002_remove_content_type_name... OK
  Applying auth.0002_alter_permission_name_max_length... OK
  Applying auth.0003_alter_user_email_max_length... OK
  Applying auth.0004_alter_user_username_opts... OK
  Applying auth.0005_alter_user_last_login_null... OK
  Applying auth.0006_require_contenttypes_0002... OK
  Applying auth.0007_alter_validators_add_error_messages... OK
  Applying auth.0008_alter_user_username_max_length... OK
  Applying auth.0009_alter_user_last_name_max_length... OK
  Applying auth.0010_alter_group_name_max_length... OK
  Applying auth.0011_update_proxy_permissions... OK
  Applying auth.0012_alter_user_first_name_max_length... OK
  Applying sessions.0001_initial... OK
```

Commit message:

new version
1. now works with haproxy
2. new versions across roach-cert, haproxy, cockroach
3. works with `verify-full` sslmode

cockroach-django/README.md, after:

# Secure CockroachDB Cluster with Django, inspired by [Docker tutorial](https://docs.docker.com/compose/django/)
Simple 3 node *secure* CockroachDB cluster with HAProxy acting as load balancer

Prerequisites:

## Services
* `roach-0` - CockroachDB node
* `roach-1` - CockroachDB node
* `roach-2` - CockroachDB node
* `lb` - HAProxy acting as load balancer
* `roach-cert` - Holds certificates as volume mounts
* `web` - Django node

## Getting started
>If you are using Google Chrome as your browser, you may want to navigate here `chrome://flags/#allow-insecure-localhost` and set this flag to `Enabled`.

1) `docker-compose run web django-admin startproject composeexample .`

```bash
14:32 $ docker-compose run web django-admin startproject composeexample .
Starting roach-cert ... done
Starting roach-0    ... done
```

2) populate composeexample/settings.py with database-specific properties

```python
DATABASES = {
    'default': {
        'ENGINE': 'django_cockroachdb',
        'NAME': 'myproject',
        'USER': 'roach',
        'HOST': 'lb',
        'PORT': '26257',
        'OPTIONS': {
            'sslmode': 'verify-full',
            'sslrootcert': '/certs/ca.crt',
            'sslcert': '/certs/client.roach.crt',
            'sslkey': '/certs/client.roach.key',
        },
    },
}
```

3) because operation order is important, execute `./up.sh` instead of `docker-compose up`
   - monitor the status of services via `docker-compose logs`
   - in case you need to adjust something in composexample/settings.py, you can
          use `docker-compose logs web`, `docker-compose kill web`, `docker-compose up -d web`
          to debug and proceed.
4) visit the [CockroachDB UI](https://localhost:8080) and login with username `test` and password `password`
5) visit the [HAProxy UI](http://localhost:8081)
6) visit the [Django](http://localhost:8000) webpage

### Open Interactive Shells
```bash
docker exec -ti roach-0 /bin/bash
docker exec -ti roach-1 /bin/bash
docker exec -ti roach-2 /bin/bash
docker exec -ti lb /bin/sh
docker exec -ti roach-cert /bin/sh
docker exec -ti web /bin/bash
```

## If web container fails to start due to the following issue:

```bash
    return func(*args, **kwargs)
  File "/usr/local/lib/python3.7/site-packages/django/db/backends/base/base.py", line 219, in ensure_connection
    self.connect()
  File "/usr/local/lib/python3.7/site-packages/django/db/utils.py", line 90, in __exit__
    raise dj_exc_value.with_traceback(traceback) from exc_value
  File "/usr/local/lib/python3.7/site-packages/django/db/backends/base/base.py", line 219, in ensure_connection
    self.connect()
  File "/usr/local/lib/python3.7/site-packages/django/utils/asyncio.py", line 26, in inner
    return func(*args, **kwargs)
  File "/usr/local/lib/python3.7/site-packages/django/db/backends/base/base.py", line 200, in connect
    self.connection = self.get_new_connection(conn_params)
  File "/usr/local/lib/python3.7/site-packages/django/utils/asyncio.py", line 26, in inner
    return func(*args, **kwargs)
  File "/usr/local/lib/python3.7/site-packages/django/db/backends/postgresql/base.py", line 187, in get_new_connection
    connection = Database.connect(**conn_params)
  File "/usr/local/lib/python3.7/site-packages/psycopg2/__init__.py", line 127, in connect
    conn = _connect(dsn, connection_factory=connection_factory, **kwasync)
django.db.utils.OperationalError: ERROR:  password authentication failed for user myprojectuser
```

Issue the following command to restart the container

```bash
docker-compose restart web
```

## Apply migration

```bash
docker-compose exec web python manage.py migrate
```

```bash
Operations to perform:
  Apply all migrations: admin, auth, contenttypes, sessions
Running migrations:
  Applying contenttypes.0001_initial... OK
  Applying auth.0001_initial... OK
  Applying admin.0001_initial... OK
  Applying admin.0002_logentry_remove_auto_add... OK
  Applying admin.0003_logentry_add_action_flag_choices... OK
  Applying contenttypes.0002_remove_content_type_name... OK
  Applying auth.0002_alter_permission_name_max_length... OK
  Applying auth.0003_alter_user_email_max_length... OK
  Applying auth.0004_alter_user_username_opts... OK
  Applying auth.0005_alter_user_last_login_null... OK
  Applying auth.0006_require_contenttypes_0002... OK
  Applying auth.0007_alter_validators_add_error_messages... OK
  Applying auth.0008_alter_user_username_max_length... OK
  Applying auth.0009_alter_user_last_name_max_length... OK
  Applying auth.0010_alter_group_name_max_length... OK
  Applying auth.0011_update_proxy_permissions... OK
  Applying auth.0012_alter_user_first_name_max_length... OK
  Applying sessions.0001_initial... OK
```

## Additionally, to open the Django frontend and verify

Add the following to the `composeexample/settings.py`

```python
ALLOWED_HOSTS = ['127.0.0.1', 'localhost', '0.0.0.0']
```
and restart the container
